techmeetup talk on security 2009-04

SLIDE: Introduction, name email, url

Hello. My name is tef and I would like to talk to you about computer security, especially web applications, I've worked as a security consultant and I've been interested in hacking from a young age.

SLIDE: Blank

Now I have introduced myself I would like to know a little bit more about the audience. Could you please raise your hand if:

-- had a virus on your computer/mobile phone
-- had an account or a password stolen
-- used a site that has been hacked - myspace, phpbb, wordpress
-- been hacked ?
   your own code or someone elses?

Hopefully you can see from this small (biased unrepresentative) sample that nearly everyone has been affected by computer security at one point in their lives, but many people when writing a website think "It'll never happen to me".

It does. Personally I've found major bugs in popular websites such as b3ta and livejournal, but major web applications such as myspace, phpbb, drupal have had their share of problems too.

No-one is immune, and if you have bugs people will find them and exploit them.

I don't intend to scare you, I aim to show you how to deal with these problems realistically.


To begin, I'd like to tell you what security is all about and why it is important:

SLIDE: Big letters: Money

If you can't keep your users trust, you will lose their business.

Information such as emails, passwords and a large audience make you
a target.

SLIDE: Infection numbers for wordpress/phpbb worm, overall incident numbers
Source: Sans/ISC

If you use off the shelf software that's popular you are more at risk. PHPBB and wordpress are prime examples.

Sometimes worms find their next victims by google. You might regret that SEO.

Running buggy software isn't the biggest risk. By far, humans are much buggier.

In the name of security, wikipedia published lists of possible troll accounts as they had identified that trolls often use the same password on multiple accounts.

Trolls didn't pick secure passwords but used obvious ones, but so did a lot of innocent wikipedia users. The staff had just handed to the trolls a list of accounts for which their password would work.


People make mistakes when writing code too:

SLIDE: Exploit numbers for the phpbb, bind, sendmail
Soure: Secunia
    phpbb, bind, sendmail, 

Threat Models - Realistic considerations of security aka What's your threat model, how attackers think

What's your threat model? 
the four most important words in security.

Slide: "WYTM" http://iang.org/ssl/wytm.html 

To be able to prepare and test for problems you need to think about what you're defending against. A good start is to break down the likely attackers:

Slide: Trolls/Opportunistic Hackers/ Automated Exploits 

Trolls are just going to annoy your users
An opportunistic hacker is going to try and find interesting information
Automated exploits are looking to infect your userbase.

This seperation is useful for understanding who is likely different kinds of attacks, so I guess it's about time we get onto the vulnerabilities themselves

Slide: OWASP Top 10
Source: http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project

The OWASP is an organisation dedicated to web security, and this is their list of top ten vulnerabilities:

::Explain each one in english

I'm going to explain a few of these 

To put into context, this is the SANS Top 10

Slide: SANS top 10

SANS is like OWASP, but dealing with internet security in general.

::Explain each one in english

Let's go back to the web vulnerabilties and take a look at a number of exploits.

Slide: XSS (big)
At number one we have cross site scripting errors, which essentially boils down to arbitrary javascript being inserted into pages. Javascript is a very powerful language, and the uses of XSS are endless.

If your blog has a comment feature, it is likely it will accept some markup language or a subset of html, but if an attacker can bypass this they can post any text they like to your page.

This code can be used to look at the cookies and send them back to the attacker, or to try and hijack the browser to install spyware.

Its a big problem with a small solution - you just need to santize any user text before returning it to the browser, and most modern frameworks or templates make this easy.

But you still need to test it to make sure it works.

At number two - "Injection flaws".
It's the same afair again. Instead of untrusted data being sent to the browser, this time it's untrusted data being sent to the database.

This was a bigger problem before Rails, Django and ORMs in general. Previously people carved up raw sql statements and all the problems they brought. Today this is a relatively solved problem for databases.

But there can still be problems when the database and the web app don't match up. 

In many sites you can retrieve your password by submitting your email.

Webapps rarely care how long a piece of text is, and so you could submit 
"victim@email.com        (lots of spaces); attacker@naughy.biz"

Slide:"victim@email.com        (lots of spaces); attacker@naughy.biz"

The database is more picky, and drops everything after a fixed number of characters (say 256). Now, in MS-SQL it truncates the whitespace.

So when you think you're sending "victim..@bla      attacker@...", the database just gets "victim@email.com".

But the mail client is never as picky, it's happy to have such a long big of text, and so sends the reminder to both the victim and the attacker.

Moral: Databases move in mysterious ways.

Note:: If I have time I'll deal with cross site request forgery too (#5)

Again, no solution is complete without testing.

Slide: Testing

    network testing - nmap, nessus
    http testing - paxos, firebug, burp network suite

There are a plethora of tools out there, and a lot of it comes down to taste. Beware though, if you think interfaces designed by programmers were bad, wait until you see these tools. 

I don't have enough time to cover all of these tools, but network testing is more about the platform you're running on (linux/apache), and http testing is your web app stack. 

Final Slide:
    Further information
        OWASP
        SANS/ISC
        F_secure blog

I hope you've enjoyed my talk, and maybe tomorrow there might be a few less bugs out there.

Questions?
